thomasthiery: Hello!
Pooja Ranjan: Hey, Thomas, hey, everyone.
thomasthiery: Sorry. But the back and forth earlier, I was like, today is a bit crazy. I have 6 back to back calls, but
Pooja Ranjan: No, no worries, I can totally understand. I would still like to make some other changes, but I'm hoping to share a document with you before you make the next meeting agenda. So that might yeah.
thomasthiery: Yeah, that sounds great. Yeah, thanks. I've honestly not been exactly sure how to deal with the whole but situation. But yeah, if you have a dog. That would be amazing.
Pooja Ranjan: Yes, I I think that would be helpful to many other facilitators. We have been receiving this kind of inconsistencies. Yeah, no.
thomasthiery: Okay.
Pooja Ranjan: Yeah.
thomasthiery: Okay, that makes sense nice, great.
Pooja Ranjan: Alright. So this meeting is already going to be recorded, Thomas, so we don't have to start the recording button, but it would be nice when you let us know like, whenever you're starting.
Pooja Ranjan: give us a 2 to 5 second interval, so we can switch over. Just let us know, and we can switch over the stream.
thomasthiery: Okay, yeah, that sounds good. Perfect. Thanks.
thomasthiery: Hello, hello, everyone. Thanks for joining.
thomasthiery: Let's wait another minute, and then we can start.
thomasthiery: Alright. Yeah, I think we can.
thomasthiery: Well, the recording is already started. But maybe we can just go ahead and start the session. Nice
thomasthiery: thanks so welcome everyone to fossil breakout number 11, I think. Yes,
thomasthiery: today, we're gonna have a presentation by Michael on relay inclusion lists before this.
thomasthiery: just want to tell you about the few updates related to fossil.
thomasthiery: Yeah. First, st I think I mentioned it last time. But we are planning the fossil session during the Berlin interrupt, which is, gonna be in June. Exactly on. Wait. Let me check exactly the day
thomasthiery: it's gonna be on Wednesday, the 11, th I think so, for those of you who are around. You are, of course, invited and just. Dm, me, and let me know, and I'll just like tell you the exact time and location
thomasthiery: most speakers are like confirmed and basically, the sessions are gonna be for sole implementation progress. We're gonna have one that by, that's gonna be by Jihoon.
thomasthiery: one on fossil synergies with other eips that's going to be by Francesco. We're going to have one on fossil and statelessness by Carlos, one on Zk fossil, by Benedict, one by fossil and the future of nodes by Barnaby.
thomasthiery: So I think that's gonna be very exciting to just like, talk about all these in in person. And yeah, if you're around, just join us, I think would be fun.
thomasthiery: yeah. But like the fossil synergies, another update is like, sort of like the progress made on the interaction between fossil delayed execution and block access lists. It's nice. Because basically, if you have block access list with post transaction values, that mostly allows attestors to statically validate
thomasthiery: blocks and especially like the fossil conditions in a much like simpler way that than before. So I mean Tony and Francesco, I think I'm mostly working on this. I've been just like
thomasthiery: following along and providing inputs. But yeah, it's it's just like nice to see that a couple of like different eips actually make make it easier for each other. So that's something I think we need to follow up on. But yeah, I think it's it's just like, nice.
thomasthiery: Yeah. Just also wanted to highlight highlight one of it that exposed.
thomasthiery: But the local node favoring Delta to the scaling roadmap.
thomasthiery: I recommend checking it out, cause it actually quite related to verbs. So validity, only
thomasthiery: partial statelessness, something we presented during a previous breakout room. And you know, in the comments there are like, sort of like a lot of discussions, and back and forth on the future of fossil. And what fossil can be like and how it interacts with full native account abstraction. So, yeah, if you have opinions or want to
thomasthiery: comment or participate in the discussions, you can check it out there.
thomasthiery: Other update, I think. It's also nice to highlight when new people join like discord conversations. And it's been the case lately. So yeah, it's just like great to have, like more and more people engaging on on this and like asking questions and being curious, but also
thomasthiery: so if you have any more questions you can also ask them during this breakout?
thomasthiery: And yeah, I think that's mostly for me.
thomasthiery: Are there any questions on any of these small updates.
thomasthiery: Nope.
thomasthiery: then we can go ahead. And with the presentation. So I think, yeah, it's gonna be Michael on relay inclusion lists.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, Hi, guys, we are sharing our screen. We should be in in a second.
Kubi & Michael: Okay? Just to confirm, can you guys see the screen.
thomasthiery: Yep.
Kubi & Michael: Okay, perfect. So 1st of all, thanks for the opportunity to present our design here today, relay inclusion lists. We have a post up on Eve research, and thanks also to everybody that provided feedback on this design.
Kubi & Michael: we can also then continue the discussion on Eve research. There's already some good exchange of ideas going on there. But in any case, without further ado, let's jump in.
Kubi & Michael: So the agenda for the presentation is to 1st quickly describe the goals of relay inclusion lists
Kubi & Michael: specifically what we want to achieve here. There's 3 goals, and we'll walk over them first, st then to sketch out the design. That is the architecture of the system. And then there's basically 2 more or less discretionary dimensions
Kubi & Michael: which will deep dive separately. And the 1st of those is what transactions to include. So the inclusion rule. And then the second is, how many transactions do we include which is the size in question? The size of the inclusion list in terms of network size. So bytes specifically. And then, lastly, we want to talk quickly about the future directions.
Kubi & Michael: So the design goals. Well, first, st we want to use relays to immediately improve censorship resistance.
Kubi & Michael: And we want to do this in, you know a certain, a certain aligned way.
Kubi & Michael: First, st we want to avoid introducing protocol changes or other technical complexity which would make the design forbidding.
Kubi & Michael: So specifically, our goal is to have something that could be applied tomorrow and immediately start increasing censorship resistance adding value. In this type of transparent way.
Kubi & Michael: We also don't want to introduce qualitatively new trust assumptions. What that means is that relay inclusion lists can be accomplished by the existing actors in the Pbs. Pipeline and validators wouldn't need to trust somebody new. They also wouldn't need to make a decision if they trust somebody more. So basically, the relays that they would be using these would be the relays that would start delivering relay inclusion lists.
Kubi & Michael: And lastly, one thing I want to highlight, we ideally would like to see relay inclusion lists as a baseline. So this should be a new default feature for non-censoring relays where the validator may opt out if it really desires that, but generally for a non-censoring relay, it should be building relay inclusion lists by default.
Kubi & Michael: Now, the second goal of the design is to prepare the block production pipeline for a future in protocol inclusion list put a different way. Relay inclusion lists are not a substitute.
Kubi & Michael: for in protocol inclusionists we we see them as a logical step in this direction and a quick step.
Kubi & Michael: What that means in practice is, first, st we want real inclusion lists to roughly reflect the fossil specifications. And the way we would like this to reflect is that the risks of the design incremental. Right? There's something that's rolled out step by step. There's testing and it's done off chain. And then this would result in a seamless operational rollover to fossil.
Kubi & Michael: if I put it in practical terms. If in protocol, including this, come about, builders, relays would know how to how to would know how to coordinate
Kubi & Michael: on on such a list being being built. And this is not just technical. This is also things like bidding dynamics.
Kubi & Michael: And then, lastly, we want to achieve these 2 overarching goals in a sustainable way, right? And which means that the relay inclusion list at the beginning should preserve, relay, competitiveness.
Kubi & Michael: or put another way. Proposal, risk, reward. And one thing that means is what I mentioned initially, no additional load on the proposal, and then, secondly, block value should not be meaningfully decreased, because if the Relay inclusion list were very large and would add a lot of latency.
Kubi & Michael: and the block value were to decrease, this would. This would just make the relay less competitive, and in this way timely inclusion, you know, would would kind of decrease over this separate axis of just the relay not winning the slots. But we think we have a good way of approaching all 3 of these goals.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, the design overview. You see, it sketched out on the right there. And again, one goal for this is to be quick, and that means it needs to be transparent and simple. There's basically 3 kind of 3 steps, and they're preceded by a setup, which is that non-censoring relays by default should build relay inclusionists for all proposals with that optional opt out.
Kubi & Michael: Now, once the setup stage has been completed, what would happen is for each slot the relay observes the main pool and then ranks these transactions via a deterministic inclusion rule
Kubi & Michael: assigning a score to each, and the inclusion rule is something that will be discussed on the next slide. So I will skip that part for the moment, and instead focus on the general setup. Then, once the relay has derived the weighted, the list of transactions ranked by inclusion score. It would fill the inclusion list with the respective top ranked transaction until the relay inclusion list size remit has been reached.
Kubi & Michael: and then, lastly, once the list has been built.
Kubi & Michael: the relay would expose a Api endpoint that builders can use to fetch the inclusion list.
Kubi & Michael: So this is part one at the beginning of the slot. And then there's Part 2, which is after the builder has seen the inclusion list and has started to, has reflected it in its block. So this is when the builder delivers the block, then the relay simulates the execution. So 1st the relay checks.
Kubi & Michael: If all transactions in the inclusion list are included in the block, and if a transaction in the inclusion list were not included in the block, the relay would simulate its execution against the block's post date.
Kubi & Michael: And then, if any non-included transactions pass standard pre-execution, validity checks the block is invalid and rejected right? So this is a strict condition.
Kubi & Michael: Thirdly, if a builder is optimistic. The reeler might not be able to reject the block in time. Instead, what would happen is there would be a penalty enforced against the builder. And the way we propose handling this penalty in our research post is that it should reflect the block value, because factually, the block would be 4 feet.
Kubi & Michael: There's another question that came up in previous discussions, which is what happens if the builders block is already full, this would not be a scenario that we would be concerned about at the moment.
Kubi & Michael: because the builder would have the list of transactions in the inclusion list available at the beginning of the slot, and therefore should, as part of standard procedure sorted into its block, which means that the block wouldn't be full without the transaction on the Relay inclusion list being included.
Kubi & Michael: Now, the next thing is the inclusion rule. So we are quickly summarizing 2 options here. Option one which, by the way, thanks for that, Anders has proposed on. If research is a lot leaner than option. 2. I kind of refer to these options respectively as multiplicative without normalization, that is, option one and normalized and additive, which is option 2
Kubi & Michael: for option one. I'm not going to deep dive both of them right now, but I'll just quickly summarize it, and then we can examine it in more depth, maybe in the discussion afterwards, or any research or Async
Kubi & Michael: option. One basically computes the inclusion score over the waiting time of the transaction in the mempole and the priority fee of the transaction. As a multiplication of each attribute
Kubi & Michael: optionally, there could be a weight added for each attribute. For example, if we were to want to say that the priority fee is more important than the waiting time, we could reflect this, but initially we would assume that the weights are 0, or put another way, that they're equally important.
Kubi & Michael: And the logic behind this is that we say, you know inclusion. This happens over a time axis, so we wouldn't want the transaction to sit in the mempole forever. And but it is also a function of how quick the transaction wants to get in, which is the pro ad fee component.
Kubi & Michael: and then the inclusion score that will have been derived would be adjusted by the total gas paid per transaction.
Kubi & Michael: Put another way. We would want to maximize the space that is still available in the inclusion list.
Kubi & Michael: It's worth highlighting here that the inclusion list is measured in network terms. So in Kilobyte. But the final adjustment here would basically be saying, well, the block space, the block space has to be
Kubi & Michael: has to be maximized in terms of value.
Kubi & Michael: Then there's option 2, which is normalized and additive. Again, one key difference here is multiplication of the waiting time, and the fee or addition of the waiting time and the fee score.
Kubi & Michael: The implication of multiplication is that a transaction which has a priority view of 0 would not find inclusion, whereas, with addition, this would be, this would be the case.
Kubi & Michael: Then, for the addition rule, we would again begin by
Kubi & Michael: examining the waiting time and the priority fee, and we would normalize it by the Median waiting time or priority fee for all transactions pending in the main pool. Then we would compute a simple additive score and divide that by the bite size which would be a way of maximizing over the networking constraint.
Kubi & Michael: So to quickly summarize the slide here before we go further, the difference between these 2 roles would be multiplication or addition.
Kubi & Michael: which is a statement of, you know, does a transaction that only pays the base fee. Should that transaction find inclusion, it is also a way of kind of handling manipulation, resistance in different ways. Multiplication without normalization has some spam resistance built in, and again, transactions are compared to each other in both scenarios.
Kubi & Michael: And then the inclusion score by total guess paid or by the transaction byte size. This would
Kubi & Michael: be an implied statement, or what? The what? The bottleneck is right, is it? Is it block space, or is it networking where the byte size would go networking, and then block space would be measured in in gas?
Kubi & Michael: Generally our feeling is that these are both appropriate ways of approaching it.
Kubi & Michael: We find option one quite lean and and elegant, but generally we would see this as a discussion kind of with the with the stakeholders, and then we can come to a final decision from there.
Kubi & Michael: The next point or the next kind of parameter decision is the sizing of the inclusion list. And that's basically one overarching goal here, which is that the size of the inclusion list shouldn't really meaningfully affect block value or put another way, decrease block value.
Kubi & Michael: And the context here is that block value decreases with increased latency, and then latency. Of course, scales with the size of the inclusion list.
Kubi & Michael: This kind of foreshadows the point that I made at the beginning, which is, that relays providing relay inclusionists must must stay competitive right to ensure timely inclusion
Kubi & Michael: and to ensure the the design. Finding continued validator adoption.
Kubi & Michael: which is the reason why we initially propose a shelling point, which is the constraint proposed in the fossil specs which is lean. With that said relay. Inclusion lists have a big advantage over proposal. Driven inclusion lists.
Kubi & Michael: which is that they're not constrained by the proposal bandwidth, which is the second point on the slide here, and what that means is as relay inclusionists become more adopted. They can support larger sizing. One reason for this is that the opportunity cost of opting into relay inclusion list decreases
Kubi & Michael: for the more relays run it, and therefore they can't be larger, right? Because you don't have to compete with relays that opt out of relay inclusion list on latency. If everybody competes on the same terms, it's possible to raise the size without incurring cost.
Kubi & Michael: And the second thing is, the bit curve can shift to accommodate the the marginal latency that really inclusion this ad, so basically, if I know that the block will be sent around a little bit earlier, I can provide my my best bit a little bit earlier.
Kubi & Michael: and then, just to wrap it up. We think there are some promising future directions here. And 1st of all, multi-relay inclusion lists.
Kubi & Michael: What this would mean is, there could be a shared inclusion list that can be built from the inclusion list computed by multiple relays. One advantage of this is that it improves censorship resistance by enforcing uniform application of the inclusion rule. So there could be a single relay which kind of builds the inclusion list to
Kubi & Michael: to maximize. It's, you know, for whatever goal it might be pursuing, there's there's a lot more. There's a lot more assurance that the inclusion role is is applied consistently, and then because it it is also the same for each relay the playing field would be even.
Kubi & Michael: And then, secondly, if each relay builds an inclusion list only locally. There's a chance that builders want to keep a lot of optionality right? So they might build one block for relay a and another block for Relay B. Under multi-relay inclusion list, they would build one block for all relays which reduces redundancy, and then again also unlocks some efficiency. In this way.
Kubi & Michael: The other 2 directions we see are really inclusion is for blob type transactions.
Kubi & Michael: And lastly, what we mentioned before, larger, larger relay inclusion list.
Kubi & Michael: To conclude the slides. There's some further reading here. The 1st is the Eve Research Post, which I would encourage people interested in this idea to consult, and then the post has a couple of references that we make all very interesting reads which are listed below it. So I would suggest checking this out, too. Yeah, so that's it from my end.
thomasthiery: Great thanks a lot that was that was really cool. And yeah, very nice to to see that you guys have worked on on the inclusion list side of things for relays also that the work on fossil was useful to to build that up. It's very nice to see.
thomasthiery: I have quite a lot of questions, but I want to give the opportunity of other people to ask some first.st So if anyone has some go ahead.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Sorry. Just a random question. I want to know, could the relays prioritize certain transaction like inadvertently introducing new centralization risks like relays becoming gatekeepers, or something like that.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, sure. So this is something that
Kubi & Michael: we want to avoid. And there's 1. There's 2 key key steps that have to be taken to avoid the relay kind of making these discretionary decisions. One is the inclusion list. Inclusion rule has to be very simple. So there's not a lot of room for discretion. Right? So the relay applies it. Each relay applies it in a way that is uniform.
Kubi & Michael: And then, secondly, one of the future directions we outlined, which is relays talking to each other. That helps with that, too, because if relays collectively, decide on the final inclusion list, then individual relays have a lot less power to kind of skew the list into a direction which which they would prefer.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Oh, okay. And one last thing is there, like a possible interaction with proposal, build separation, especially if the builders ignore leads to maximum. Mev.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, so I mean, the the entire design is like, purposely built such that it fits onto the current pbs, supply chain.
Kubi & Michael: And so, yeah, the intent is just to communicate these constraints or the inclusion list to the block builders, and they have to adhere to it. So unless there are relays that don't support it, basically for a given slots. If a proposal connects to these relays, a block will not be valid. So it essentially is purposely built for the Pbs supply chain as exists today.
thomasthiery: Nice. Okay, I will go ahead with some of mine.
thomasthiery: Yeah, just one. No, this is more of a comment, but just wanted to point out that the fossil size is 8 kB, but there are like 16 of them. So you know, if there are, there is no overlap that will actually be 16 times 8 kB
thomasthiery: but I know bandwidth is a concern. I just wanted to to sort of like make that clear. Also, like that was in in your last slide. But but Blob is would actually be really, really cool. It's more bandwidth for sure.
thomasthiery: I think it's actually around the side of like 16 times 8 kB for one blob. But you know, fossil doesn't support this in its current form. We have ideas of like protocol ways to
thomasthiery: get better sense of resistance for blobs. But it's it's really not there yet, at least like not at the same stage. As for solids. So yeah, I mean, I think that's a very exciting direction.
thomasthiery: And then, yeah, yeah, there was more comment. But if you have any answers.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, so quick comments on the the blob is so, as you said correctly, the biggest concern is just the size and the additional latency, and hence preventing adoption, or like putting relays that basically adopt this like in in a worse spot, in terms of competitiveness.
Kubi & Michael: That being said, we're currently already exploring optimistic. V, 3, for relays. Which essentially means that the builders can submit the headers
Kubi & Michael: without submitting the payloads which effectively means they can, like on a low latency basis, keep updating their bits without having to shuffle the entire big block payload. And so
Kubi & Michael: under optimistic V 3, the size of the block, at least from a latency perspective in terms of submitting bits to the relay, should have 0 influence. And once that is live. I think, basically blob inclusion lists also become viable.
thomasthiery: Nice. Okay, that's pretty cool
thomasthiery: and make sense for for the side of the size of it. Also, yeah, I understand the gradual process into
thomasthiery: making sure you have some adoption before you increase like the the bandwidth. For sure.
thomasthiery: Nice.
thomasthiery: Does anyone have any other questions? Otherwise I'll just keep going.
thomasthiery: Okay, I'll keep going. Yeah. Just wanted to know for the inclusion rule. I think
thomasthiery: I don't. I didn't get why the multi multiplicative regime didn't have the transaction size as a an input and the additive did, because the transaction size is not only like
thomasthiery: I don't know an optimization. It's also to avoid
thomasthiery: that also allows to avoid the Il flooding like, you know, you can, if you submit like a very, very large transaction that gets picked, picked up, and that takes like the entire inclusion list. And then
thomasthiery: you are able to invalidate it that sort of like crowds out other transaction. And that's an attack we want to avoid. So like sort of like
thomasthiery: filtering by descending order of by transaction. Size is anyways a a quite good idea, I think.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, thanks for the comment. There, I think this is very valid. So basically, there's 2 things we considered. One is where in option 2. We are adjusting by transaction size to kind of preclude this vector that you mentioned right where a single transaction can come in and clock up the space
Kubi & Michael: on the inclusion list, and then the angle from which we approached the other adjustment in option, one which is over the gas is, we were saying, well, what do we expect to be the bottleneck in practice? Would it be the networking constraint.
Kubi & Michael: or would it be the the block space, constraints, or kind? Of which of these is more is more limited, and then we should, we should maximize over the over, the constraint.
Kubi & Michael: the option with adjusting per gas to some extent also favor smaller transactions if we say that they have less gas. But of course, in a less direct way.
Kubi & Michael: I think in summary, we don't really have a final intuition, yet on which of these approaches would be best, but it seems like there could be a hybrid approach where we adjust by both to some extent, or we have a threshold to ensure that this attack, where somebody can clog up the block, space does not happen, but at the same time we maximize the utility of the remaining block space.
thomasthiery: Nice. Yeah, that makes total sense. and there is also. And there's comments on on it. Research, apparently, that compares these options. So I will look into this a bit more.
thomasthiery: Thanks. And then more general, I think high level questions.
thomasthiery: what will happen to relay inclusion lists if or let's be optimistic when fossil makes it in the protocol.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah, I think, the from our perspective. Then it would just be deprecated.
Kubi & Michael: And what Michael mentioned earlier, I guess the upside of having some of the actors across the supply chain already supporting inclusion lists is obviously builders, will have adopted them, but also the relays in terms of having to validate blocks based on inclusion list and things like that. But like actually gossiping or like needing to maintain and generating the inclusion list. But then, from our perspective currently be deprecated.
thomasthiery: Okay, yeah, that makes sense. No, no, the rollout makes total sense. I I was just sort of wondering, okay, what happens? Because then it. It will feel a bit like a double like. I don't know. Repetitive sort of thing.
Kubi & Michael: Absolutely, I think, like in protocol is obviously much stronger. And so like, yeah, there wouldn't be any need anymore.
thomasthiery: Okay. Nice thanks. A lot any other questions from
thomasthiery: from other people. How should we move on.
Jihoon: I have a question, how do we make sure? Relays, build relay inclusion list according to the inclusion rule correctly. What I want to ask is.
Jihoon: is there any gadget that prevents relay? Inclusion? Release doesn't become a vehicle for breakout?
Kubi & Michael: Yeah. So to summarize the question, if I understood it correctly, was how we ensure that relays. Apply the inclusion rule correctly. I think one way we've approached. This is by saying, the relay is a trusted party, and the validator enforces this trust against the relay. So if a relay were to misbehave ideally, the validator should opt out.
Kubi & Michael: And then, secondly, once the the Relay inclusion list can be shared between multiple relays. So multi-relay inclusion list. The the last point on the
Kubi & Michael: last slide. This, this vector would be offset to a large extent, because then relays. Build one inclusion list collectively, again reducing the discretion each individual relay has over the inclusion list.
Kubi & Michael: Yeah. And the other factor is that, given that the inclusion list will be made available publicly, which is how the builders will, or which is how they will be communicated to builders
Kubi & Michael: if there's any massive outlier, ie. Some weird transactions that were never seen on the mempoles that ending up on the inclusion list, and things like that. I think builders will pretty quickly spot it and call relays out. And then again, it will be a huge reputational damage, which I think is one of the key things that relays optimize for.
Jihoon: Got it. Thank you.
thomasthiery: Right. Thanks. I guess another sort of like out of the box idea is like to use a T but might be a bit of overhead, and I agree, but like the trust assumption being sort of the same like, if you trust the relay, you could also trust it.
thomasthiery: For building inclusion list, according to the rules they have specified. But great. Okay, thanks. Yeah. Again. Great presentation. Thanks. A lot for coming in should we move to implementation updates?
thomasthiery: I don't have any super specific thing on the agenda, but I'm I'm I am curious to hear if there are like sort of progress across the board. Whether it's testing or implementation on, on clients or interrupt. What's
thomasthiery: What's the status of all this.
jacob k: Yeah, I would just. I can say a couple of things. First, st I think we should try to get this pr
jacob k: authored by Mark merged in as soon as possible. I think there's been a lot of
jacob k: comments on that. And
jacob k: I think it's okay. If we just wanna like limit scope and open a subsequent pr, as long as we
jacob k: address kind of like the core aspects of
jacob k: what's happening on the execution layer.
jacob k: And then, yeah, I have a draft Pr up on the execution specs we'll need to do a rebase on top of the latest Osaka
jacob k: fork over there which didn't exist at the time that I opened it.
jacob k: And then I'll have to. Yeah, depending on what what gets merged into the IP, maybe make some changes. I've also been working on the execution spec test
jacob k: should have a Pr up in the next few days.
jacob k: again. This is another thing where it'd be nice to have this pr for the IP merged.
jacob k: Just so we're all operating from the same.
jacob k: Yeah, from the same eip, essentially. And then, yeah, once that's
jacob k: ready, we'll be able to have some test fixtures in the engine, new payload formats. And then, yeah, I will validate those with either ref or or geth
jacob k: the refer. Get fossil fork before before the Pr. And then other clients can
jacob k: consume them and validate them.
jacob k: but yeah, I think the main thing is just try to get the the pr merged
jacob k: in the next day or 2 would be great.
Marc: I can. Take a look through these review comments today.
jacob k: Great.
jacob k: Appreciate that. Yeah, that's that's all I have.
thomasthiery: Nice. No, that's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I remember there was quite a bit on the Pr. But I haven't looked for a while, so I'm happy also to take another look today. See if I see anything. And
thomasthiery: yeah, we, we should get it much because I I did see yeah, new people coming in or so, and being a bit confused about the execution parts of the eap, so would be nice to have it merged, I agree. And then what? I just didn't really follow. What was the
thomasthiery: so like? 1st pr, not the spec test one, but the the 1st Pr was about
thomasthiery: that you need need to rebase on on full cycle.
jacob k: The execution specs. Yeah, I can share a link to the
jacob k: that. Pr, but essentially, it's just, you know, taking what's in the eip and.
thomasthiery: Thanks. Perfectly. Okay. Great.
jacob k: Making it so that we can create test against it. And yeah, just a more formal version of the
jacob k: of the IP, or at least execution layer aspects of it. However, yeah.
jacob k: the diff shown is quite large, because I had to add a bunch of Osaka boilerplates. But now that there is a upstream branch with that should be able
jacob k: remove a bunch of that.
thomasthiery: Nice.
thomasthiery: Yeah, that's awesome. Okay, great thanks. A lot.
thomasthiery: And you have been talking to the steel team right.
jacob k: Some. Yeah.
jacob k: yeah. I mean, fortunately, the they have some pretty good docs, and I was able to figure out most of
jacob k: most of these things myself. But yeah.
jacob k: they've been helpful and responsive. So it's great.
thomasthiery: Okay. Great. Okay. Very good news. Thanks for sharing.
thomasthiery: Okay, any other updates.
Jihoon: Yes, so on the conscious aspect. I'm working on conscious specs and conscious of spec tests.
Jihoon: I've added basic unit tests. And there were some missing pieces in the spec. So that's what I'm currently working on. At the moment.
Jihoon: After completing the spec, I can resume adding bunch of a test.
Jihoon: and the fixtures will also provide enclosure list as a file, so that cl clients can consume it.
Jihoon: Timeline, wise. Justin and I aim to ship it in the next Constances release, if it's possible, which is in 2 weeks.
thomasthiery: Okay, sounds good. Great. Okay? So it's it's awesome. Cause you guys are like, sort of like working in parallel on both the consensus execution side of things for tests which is really cool.
thomasthiery: Yeah, let me know if
thomasthiery: I'll let everyone know. I guess if you need input
thomasthiery: on ideas or things to test. At any point. I feel like there are quite a bit of scenarios we can actually sort of play around with on both sides. But maybe. Yeah, I know we are not necessarily there yet, but
thomasthiery: would be nice to also chat about.
thomasthiery: And then does anyone else have something to share?
thomasthiery: Okay? If not, yeah.
Jihoon: Yeah. So I just remember that there was a feedback, that there was a
Jihoon: discrepancy between the overview picture of the eip and the text below, and it'd be nice if you could align them. So maybe
Jihoon: yeah, Joe Chan, do you wanna talk about it more.
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): Yeah, it was just something I noticed when when we did the the Erp.
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): So I think if you if the text and the picture matches, then it is also much easier to understand, because now it it looks
jochem-brouwer (EthJS): yeah, a bit contradicting. When you read read the Erp.
thomasthiery: Okay, yeah. I remember seeing that in the discussion, for sure I can. I can take a look very soon. Let me just make a note of it. But yeah, no, that's a that's a good good point we'll definitely look into this. Thanks.
thomasthiery: then, mercy! You want to talk about what you shared.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, I can on the front end of the transaction for visualizer. It's still empty double I was hoping to
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: try and populate it and see what the the transactions and and how it's going to actually look like.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: But this is where I'm out at the front end. Currently.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: body backend is mostly ready. Yeah.
thomasthiery: Nice.
thomasthiery: Okay, super cool. Thanks nice. And then
thomasthiery: let me check. I remember I wanted to ask
thomasthiery: a client team that was very, very close to. Oh, yeah, I think there was lighthouse. I I remember lighthouse being very close to interrupt, and then sort of like not hearing from you guys.
thomasthiery: Do we have someone from night house here? No.
thomasthiery: Okay. Yeah. We'll. We'll just follow up with them later, I guess. But great, okay.
thomasthiery: is there anything else?
thomasthiery: Okay? Cool. Then I think we can.
thomasthiery: and this thanks a lot for joining and participating and see you in 2 weeks.
jacob k: You.
Kubi & Michael: Bye, bye.
Marc: All right.
Kubi & Michael: This.
Pooja Ranjan: Thank you.